---
name: Bigfoot Sightings
tools: [Python, HTML, vega-lite, altair]
image: assets/pngs/bigfoot_preview.png
description: This project uses vega-lite and altair to display data on Bigfoot sightings geographically.
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# Bigfoot Sightings by State Choropleth

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/choropleth.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

Background: A choropleth is a thematic map that uses colored shading to represent the magnitude of a variable across a geographic area. 

Here, I have mapped a choropleth of reported Bigfoot sightings by state with an orange hue scale, where darker hues represent more sightings, and lighter hues represent less sightings. As you can see, Washington has the most reported sightings, followed not so closely by Florida, California, Ohio, and Texas. 

I chose this color scheme because Bigfoot is described to have dark brown hair, and I wanted the most intense hues on the map to either resemble dark brown or really stand out against lesser hues (which the "browns" color scheme fell short on). For the tooltip, I displayed the state's name and its corresponding number of sightings, which are the two most informative pieces of data for each state.

For data transformation, I did have to create a separate dataframe to store the number of sightings per state, as well as a unique identifier (called a FIPS code) for each state. This will help Altair map the data (Bigfoot sightings) from the dataframe to the correct geographical shapes (states) based on thier FIPS code.

# Bigfoot Sightings by Season

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/by_season.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

This is an interactive map that displays individual Bigfoot sightings that are colored by the season of the sighting. If you click on a particular season in the legend, it will highlight only the sightings reported in that season, and gray out the rest. If you click outside the legend, it will display all sightings. I configured this by encoding the opacity of the data points: full opacity when selected, 0.12 opacity when not selected.

I created a custom color scale and picked colors that I thought best represented each season - blue for the cold winter, green for spring greenery and new life, yellow for summer sunshine, orange for fall leaves, and purple for unknown because it stands apart from seasonal colors.

For data transformation, I removed rows with missing latitude or longitude values, as they cannot be plotted geographically.


<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/bfro_reports_fall2022.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/jho099/jho099.github.io/blob/main/python_notebooks/HW5.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>
